So, Django, since this course is targeted
towards more of an advanced beginner,
we're going to jump right into Django.
If you'd rather learn about Flask,
you can watch the last chapter of
the intermediate Python course
on front end masters, or you can review
the final exercise on the course website.
So we're going to go ahead and
grab the project code instead of
starting a Django project from scratch.
If you do want to start a new Django
project from scratch, I recommend that you
follow the steps on the official Django
tutorial for building your first app.
That has everything that you need to
start up a Django project, but for
the time being, we're going to work from
a project that I have already created.
So go ahead and
CD into your home directory and
get clone this project right here.
And then let's CD into the practical blog,
Directory.
One more thing, if you're not doing
this in a new tab, make sure that you
type deactivate and clear out
the current active virtual environment.
We're going to create a new
virtual environment for
this project because it doesn't
share any of the libraries that we
have been using in class before, and
we wanna keep everything separate.
Oops, that was already in the right place.
So now you should have a directory
that looks something like this.
And we're gonna go ahead and
create a new virtual environment.
And then we're going to use that pip
install -r command to install what is in
requirements.txt in it.
So to make a new virtual environment,
remember, you do python3 -m venv.
And then we're going to source it,
so source env/bin/activate.
And we'll see that now I have my
new virtual environment activated.
If I take a look at what is in
requirements.txt, see that it is a file
with just one line and
it said the requirement is Django 3.1.2.
So I can type python-m pip install-r,
which means install
the requirements from this file and
pass in requirements-txt.
And that's gonna go ahead and
install Django.
While we're at it, we can also run
python-m pip install--upgrade pip to
be on the latest version of pip so that we
don't see this annoying warning anymore.
There are two things that we're going to
need to do to get set up to run this web
application.
We're going to need to prime our
database by running a migrate command,
and we're going to need to run the server
to make sure that our server has
come up successfully.
So to prime the database,
you're gonna do python manage.py,
along with the migrate command.
manage.py is the file that's
automatically generated by Django and
has shortcuts to a lot of the commands
that you might want to run when working
with a Django application.
You should see something like this,
operations to perform, apply migrations.
Most of these, four of these, admin, off,
content type, and
sessions come baked into Django.
And then blog is the app
that I've created.
So this goes ahead and
creates all of the database tables
that Django needs to operate
in a file called db.sqlite3.
That's because we're currently
working with a local SQLite database.
When you're working in production,
you can move on to MySQL, or Postgres, or
whatever database you want to use.
Finally, we can run python
manage.py run server and
see if our server comes up successfully.
If it does, you should see
it running at localhost8000.
And when I visit that URL,
I'll see My Python blog, no posts yet,
come back later.
So I'm just gonna give three or four
minutes for folks to catch up with me,
and make sure that they're able
to start their Python server and
see the same thing that I'm seeing.
Instructions for that should be here.
I did notice one typo here.
Unfortunately, to make
a new virtual environment,
make sure that you use Python3 and
not Python.
And I will go ahead and
fix that when I have a moment.